Final questions for the course to get an idea on your general impressions of the JBoss BRMS tooling:
====================================================================================================

1) What is the one thing you would change about the tool?

Answer: Some technical problems like After archiving an item not being able to
delete it permanently from the archived items due to technical problems (I do
not remember the error message that appeared in the screen)and thus unable to
use the same name for an item that you have already deleted Losing saved data.
The appearance in the screen of an OK input text box used previously.
Unexpected error messages.

2) What or where was the biggest problem you had when using the tool?

Answer: The loss of the saved data (the whole package and the business rules
disappeared) after logging out.


3) Where is the biggest improvement that could be made?
   
Answer: Apart from correcting the aforementioned technical problems, some user
interface improvements could also help. Grouping for example the opened tabs
based on the category of the items (rules, tests etc) or being able to modify
an item from "view source" and save the changes (now you can only view the
source code) screen when having crated them with the guided editor.



4) How was the documentation able to help?
   
Answer: I did not use the documentation widely but when did it was very helpful.


5) Should there be self help, and what form would it take?
   
Answer: An online training that could cover some basic functionalities of the
tool could help as well. Each lesson could first provide a theoretical approach
to a concept, then a small example and a demo with the corresponding
functionality of the tool and finally an exercise that the user could do by
him. I guess that this training could be very similar to the practical lessons
of our course.


6) Did you use any of the testing features, how did you like them, what could be improved?

Answer: I did use the "test scenarios" and the run "Test scenarios in package"
options. I found the user interface very friendly. The green and red coverage
when executing a test scenario that showed success and failure are very
helpful. I did also like in Â«Test scenarios in package" the provision of
information about the percentage of the rules that I had created rules for and
again the percentage of the successful and failed rules with green and red
colors.


7) What did you expect to be able to do that you couldn't?

Answer: Right- click on the items (edit, delete, rename, copy etc all in one
and in separate menus), pop-up help texts, when copying an item automatically
the new item to be opened and not source item (the one copied).


8) What was the biggest source of frustration?

Answer: The frequent appearance of a error message (Sorry! A technical error
has occured! Please contact your administrator!).It occasionally appeared
without changing anything at all in the packages!



