The final task for the students was to provide answers to the following
questions. Each question is followed by anonymous answers:
========================================================================

1) What is the one thing you would change about the tool?

Answer: Auto save or at least it should notify me if am about to close unsaved
tabs.

Answer: Some technical problems like After archiving an item not being able to
delete it permanently from the archived items due to technical problems (I do
not remember the error message that appeared in the screen)and thus unable to
use the same name for an item that you have already deleted Losing saved data.
The appearance in the screen of an OK input text box used previously.
Unexpected error messages.

Answer: I would add more explanatory buttons, in stead of having to click on
items to add facts.

Answer: Less clicking, when you have to fill in a literal value for a
constraint you have to click to much.

Answer: Give the user suggestions when something is going wrong. The error
messages are too cryptic right now.

Answer: Easier discoverability of the manual pages related to what I'm
currently doing.

Answer: I would make sure it would be more Robust: less errors, no server
crashes. No missing repositories, no weird error messages that turn out to be
unsupportedoperationexception in the terminal window. Encountering a lot of
problems made the experience of working with it really unpleasant. 

Answer: The interface: It would be a good idea to make a 'wizard' that guides a
user through the creation of a model,rule, drl (etc.). This wizard should make
use of simple (almost cartoon like) buttons, explanations of things that are
added (for instance an explanation for the addition of a constraint of a
certain type). 

Answer: When writing DSL, the code was getting successfully validated, even in
cases it was not absolutely correct (e.g. extra line). This, was later leading
to problems when creating and testing the rules.  So, i think that especially
in DSL cases, validation should take into consideration such issues.



2) What or where was the biggest problem you had when using the tool?

Answer: It doesn't warn me if I close tabs that I haven't saved. By all means
this could be a hassle especially when you are managing thousand rules and
sometime open more than 10 tabs at the same time and somehow you've lost tracks
whether you have saved the work on each tab.

Answer: Lost work, mostly due to changes not being persisted to the database
and ambiguous error messages (i.e. when leaving the 'dialect mvel' bit out of a
rule)

Answer: The loss of the saved data (the whole package and the business rules
disappeared) after logging out.

Answer: I forgot to save things sometimes which caused a bit of confusion when
testing rules. Loops were also a problem.

Answer: You couldn't edit the source, and rules that caused firing each other
(thus creating a loop).

Answer: Out of memory exceptions, also causing the repository to corrupt.

Answer: The biggest problem I had was my own fault but I had a lot of trouble
making sure the business rules did not cause an infinite loop.

Answer: There were certainly some big problems, however I do not know to which
extent they were related to the installation. 
- The repository sometimes did not restore from the previous time
- At a certain point the whole server broke and after starting it up again
  could not get it to work again. 
- At the end a problem appeared with accessing tests. Which I could not
  determine the cause off.  All this made me do a lot of extra unnecessary
  work. 

Answer: When I encountered problems (errors), the error message gave me little
feedback or hints to the source of the problem. Only by personally
'investigating' the issue, I could find out the cause of (some of my) problems

Answer: Validation of rules and models sometimes was not successful, and after
deleting and recreating exactly the same rules/models it could be successfully
validated.



3)  Where is the biggest improvement that could be made?
   
Answer: Assume that I am opening the Model tab and one of rules. I edited types
in the Model and saved it, but the changes couldn't be seen immidiately from
the rule I am opening unless I close the rule and open it again.

Answer: Rather than forcing a user to choose between a design based rule or a
text based rule and making him stick to his decision, you could make these
interchangeable 'views'. Much like a HTML designer or Visual Studio has a
design and a code view.

Answer: Apart from correcting the aforementioned technical problems, some user
interface improvements could also help. Grouping for example the opened tabs
based on the category of the items (rules, tests etc) or being able to modify
an item from "view source" and save the changes (now you can only view the
source code) screen when having crated them with the guided editor.

Answer: Automatically save on closing of a tab (or at least a preference that
enables this).

Answer:
- Error messages that actually show what is wrong (QA Analysis failure telling
  me to look at the server log, then the server log shows me a nice stacktrace
  I don't understand without knowledge of JBOSS BRMS' insides)
- Error messages that suggest how to solve the problem.
- Show a "Would you like to save your changes?" window when closing a tab.
- Make it work correctly in Internet Explorer.

Answer: Better exception handing; instead of showing a message like "an error
happed, look at the log at the server", please try to show me a message
explaining what error occurred, what might be the problem and how it can be
fixed.

Answer: Improvement of the user interaction, making it smoother to work with.
At the moment for example:
- text boxes are left on the screen when changing from tab if they're not
  filled in. 
- a tab is not reloaded when it is already opened and it is selected in the
  left menu. 
- only with create new in the left menu can a new rule be made, not by
  selecting the business rules asset list. 
- filling in a Boolean value has to be done by hand.  These are all things that
  can annoy the business people that software is intended for. 

Answer: the interface and the feedback/messages when errors occur

Answer: More detailed validation of the DSL schema. In case of syntax error a
brief description should immediately be provided, instead of the  'Contact
Administrator' message when running the test scenarios.



4) How was the documentation able to help?
   
Answer: I didn't look to much for the documentation, but I presume it's
documented well.

Answer: It was ok. Google was my friend during the assignment.

Answer: I did not use the documentation widely but when did it was very
helpful.

Answer: I tried to find some information about the DSL in the documentation but
couldn't find anything helpful.

Answer: The documentation on redhat.com was quite good. It showed in a clear
manner how to create my own business rules.

Answer: On the internet I could find some useful documentation. They helped me
a lot.Especially in text based rule creation and ISL. On forums I also found
some solutions to problems, although not every problem had a satisfying answer,
or remained basically unanswered. 

Answer: Sorry, I did not consult the documentation when using the tool (was
able to find out most things by myself eventually or through fellow students)

Answer: Documentation was quite helpful(especially screenshots), though, it was
not mentioning the problems that arised.



5) Should their be self help, and what form would it take?
   
Answer: Yes there should (but since I explicitly helped myself my opinion might
be biased). Since this a popular and well developed product any capable
individual should be able to install and use it on its own with the
documentation provided.

Answer: An online training that could cover some basic functionalities of the
tool could help as well. Each lesson could first provide a theoretical approach
to a concept, then a small example and a demo with the corresponding
functionality of the tool and finally an exercise that the user could do by
him. I guess that this training could be very similar to the practical lessons
of our course.

Answer: A simple manual that shows screenshots on how to create the rules. It
took a while to figure this out, and that would have helped.

Answer: I must say I haven't really looked at the current help system in JBoss
BRMS but if there isn't maybe a contextual help link could help. For example,
If BRMS sees that I'm trying to create a test case, I can click the help link
to automatically open the relevant page in the redhat documentation.

Answer: Instead of self help the error messages should be clearer and give the
user some precise pointers where the problem is. At the moment most error
messages are not clear enough. To solve any problem I often used trial and
error instead of really having a clue what was actually wrong.  An error
message as: "does not support method call is Allowed(Object object,
InternalWorkingMemory workingMemoiry)" really gives me barely any information
where to look for the problem. 

Answer: Ehm.. maybe it's possible to visibly show, as soon as an error occurs,
where the error occurs and why. Or add a check list of common things that can
be forgotten or common mistakes resulting in (typical) errors

Answer: A forum could be helpful in solving problems and exchanging opinions.



6) Did you use any of the testing features, how did you like them, what could
   be improved?

Answer: Yes, the testing feature is awesome! It couldn't be better.

Answer: This is a great feature and should definitely be part of any rule based
system. Improvements? In Test Scenario's, any changes made AFTER running a test
will not be saved (even when repeatedly pressing the Save button).

Answer: I did use the "test scenarios" and the run "Test scenarios in package"
options. I found the user interface very friendly. The green and red coverage
when executing a test scenario that showed success and failure are very
helpful. I did also like in «Test scenarios in package" the provision of
information about the percentage of the rules that I had created rules for and
again the percentage of the successful and failed rules with green and red
colors.

Answer: It is not clear what the verify does, because sometimes a rule passes
the verify, but gives an error on something else.

Answer: Yes, feedback could be improved. Now you will get an error that isn't
really clear. Errors should suggest how to solve the problem, not only show the
problem.

Answer: I did use the testing features and I did like them but the annoying
thing about them was that when you ran the test, you can make changes to the
test afterwards click the save button, but those changes would not actually be
saved.  Another thing was that I had some trouble comparing dates using the
test tool.

Answer: Yes I have used the testing analysis and the QA tool. These were really
helpful. However the QA tool was not always working so well, refer for this the
earlier comment about robustness. 

Answer: I used the test package (or analysis) and test scenario options from
the QA tab/menu. The test scenario's worked best for me (green bars,
percentages and summary info were useful). The test package option gave error
info, but this wasn't presented in a easily understandable format (like test
scenario's)

Answer: Yes, we made use of the test scenarios. It was quite easy to understand
how they work.



7) What did you expect to be able to do that you couldn't?

Answer: Expected to be able to do this but couldn't -> Assume that I am opening
the Model tab and one of rules. I edited types in the Model and saved it, but
the changes couldn't be seen immidiately from the rule I am opening unless I
close the rule and open it again.

Answer: It's a nice feature that you can do Test Scenario's in a GUI, but a
text based solution would be nice too. In other proofing tools I'm used to
provide an initial set of facts as a text file.

Answer: Right- click on the items (edit, delete, rename, copy etc all in one
and in separate menus), pop-up help texts, when copying an item automatically
the new item to be opened and not source item (the one copied).

Answer: I expected that more complex rules could be made, but sometimes I had
to split up rules or had to leave them out because they were too complicated.

Answer: In a model to reference to every object (now, you can only reference to
earlier objects)

Answer: Modify a fact that inserted using the guided rule editor. I was able to
solve this using a DSL, but that is way too cumbersome in some situations.

Answer: I didn't have any expectations of the software that were not fulfilled.

Answer: I would have expected the business rules that should be entered in the
tool to represent the rulespeak form to a greater extent. At the moment things
that should be done in rulespeak: like 'must' and 'may' do not come back in the
software.  

Answer: make an explicit link between different fact types (for instance, in my
library model, I wanted to create an 'AND' consisting of information fields
from different fact types; this was implicitly possible by adding all fact
types to a rule, but it didn't say something like : When there is a library
with (blabla) AND there is a Library Item with (bla) AND ... ) 

Also, in the model creation (when adding fact types), if I would want to select
a field from another fact type (for instance, in my RuleSpeak assignment model,
I have a link between Item_on_loan (which is an objectified fact type) and Date
that represents the return Date fact, but Date is also involved in the
objectified fact type). These things are not possible to add in the declarative
model in JBOSS BRMS. 

Or, to be more clear, here's another example: a library item involved in fact
type Item_on_loan should be the same library item involved in 'Incident'. I
want to be able to use the same field (in this case, it would be something like
library_item.name) in both the Item_on_loan and Incident fact type. However, it
is only possible to add a field of type [fact type] so that would be a field of
type 'Incident' to be added to a Item_on_loan. 

NOTE: it's also not possible to add a field with a fact type as it's type, if
that fact type is declared later on in the model. so if this is the case:
- fact type 'Library'
- fact type 'Library_item'
then library cannot have a field that is of type 'library_item'.. This makes it
difficult to translate an ORM or UML diagram to a declarative model in JBOSS
BRMS. 

Answer: To delete rule and test scenarios more easily (e.g select it and press
the delete button). Not having to archive them and then delete them from the
administration section.



8) What was the biggest source of frustration?

Answer: It doesn't warn me if I close tabs that I haven't saved. By all means
this could be a hassle especially when you are managing thousand rules and
sometime open more than 10 tabs at the same time and somehow you've lost tracks
whether you have saved the work on each tab.

Answer: Lost work, definitely!!

Answer: The frequent appearance of a error message (Sorry! A technical error
has occured! Please contact your administrator!).It occasionally appeared
without changing anything at all in the packages!

Answer: Failure to save, private property error when you forget to write
'dialect "mvel"'

Answer:
- Losing my repository... but, I got it back by exporting and importing again.
- Not knowing what I did wrong in DSLs. This took too much time to figure out
  (not good for production environments).

Answer: "kill -9"-ing java multiple times because it was using 100% CPU again,
not Drool's fault, I know

Answer: Besides the errors popping up, the fact that there were a lot of things
in it that simply do not make sense at the beginning. (certainly not to the
business users) and are things one ought to know before using it.  examples of
this are: 
- The extra enter on the end of a DSL
- Putting the right dialect

Answer: De tool is best ok, maar er zijn wel wat punten die misschien
aangepast/veranderd/verbeterd kunnen worden.
- Zo vergt het invoeren van een model met een simpele set regels al enorm veel
  klikken.
- De vele pop-ups kunnen misschien vermeden worden door wat meer met drop-down
  menu's te werken.
- Het is erg statisch: het werkt van boven naar beneden en als je boven iets
  van beneden nodig hebt, kan dat niet. Daarbij kun je de volgorde van de
  dingen niet aanpassen, dus zul je iets slims moeten bedenken of opnieuw
  moeten beginnen.
- Ik zie het voordeel niet van dat dit programma web-based is. Waarom geen
  stand alone proggie?
- De tabs van de verschillende rules enzo beslaan het hele scherm, waardoor je
  steeds op de andere tabs moet klikken om die te bekijken. Meerdere tabs
  tegelijk op het scherm zou handig zijn.

Answer: lack of detailed feedback information when encountering errors: it is
likely that (in the beginning) a user will make (many) mistakes or input error
prone values, having to find out what is wrong by myself, when I'm not yet an
experienced user is very frustrating for me personally

Answer: Having to find out why the 'Contact Administrator' message was
appearing when running the test scenarios as well as trying to figure out what
was meant by the warning descriptions in the QA analysis section.

